## Introduction
A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

The goal of the project is building an ETL pipeline that loads data from S3, processes the data into analytics tables using Spark, and loads them back into S3. This Spark process will be deployed on a cluster using AWS.


## Datasets
The data sources for our data lake are provided by two public S3 buckets:

- Songs bucket (s3://udacity-dend/song_data) - this dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID.

- Event bucket (s3://udacity-dend/log_data) - consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings. The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month.


## Files
1) etl.py - Runs the ETL process to load data from S3, process it using Spark and load back to S3.
2) dl.cfg - contains AWS credentials such as access key id and secret access key


## Star Schema
A star schema optimized for queries on song play analysis will be created using Spark. This includes the following tables:

**Fact Table**
1) songplays - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong  
    *songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent*
    
**Dimension Tables**
1) users - users in the app  
    *user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level*
2) songs - songs in music database  
    *song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration*
3) artists - artists in music database  
    *artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude*
4) time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units  
    *start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday*
